Again, Jonah chapter four, verses one to nine.
But to Jonah, this seemed very wrong and he became angry.
He prayed to the Lord, isn't this what I said, Lord, when I was still at home?
This is what I tried to forestall by fleeing to Tarshish.
I knew that you are a gracious and compassionate God, slow to anger and abounding in love, a God who relents from sending calamity.
Now Lord, take away my life for it is better for me to die than to live."
But the Lord replied, is it right for you to be angry?
Jonah had gone out and sat down at the place east of the city.
And there he made himself a shelter, sat in its shade and waited to see what would happen to the city.
Then the Lord God provided a leafy plant and made it grow up over Jonah to give shade for his head to ease his discomfort.
and Jonah was very happy about the plant.
But at dawn the next day God provided a worm which chewed the plant so that it withered.
When the sun rose God provided a scorching east wind and the sun blazed on Jonah's head so that he grew faint.
He wanted to die and said, it would be better for me to die than to live.
But God said to Jonah, is it right for you to be angry about the plant?
It is he said.
And I'm so angry I wish I were dead.
This is the word of the word.
Would you join me in welcoming up Chris?
Well, good morning church.
How you're doing?
I am so honored to be here.
I so love
Pastor Tyler and Brian and the whole team, and I love Bethany with all of my heart.
She'll tell you, I listen to the service every single week.
And she knows that because when she preaches, I'm going like, you are my Tyler, I love you too, because I know you'll be listening to this later.
But Bethany is my favorite.
And so I am not that unbiased, but I thank God that this house has raised up such a mighty woman of God and the influence and impact of this house.
Here you are.
Portland making an impact all around the world.
There's only a handful of churches around the world that I listen to like every single week and certainly your community is helping to shape me.
I am married to the single most ravishing piece of masculine flesh on planet earth and my husband in March will be married 30 years.
How is that?
Nick is actually number 12 of 13 children.
And so, you know, his mother had 15 full-time pregnancies in 17 years.
So as you could, oh, the chicks just crossed their legs.
Anyway, no, but the thing is that he was born in Ballarat.
There was no television in that part of Australia.
That's for sure.
We've got two girls.
I've got Catherine Bobby.
She is our
23 year old, she graduated from Pepperdine in May and then went down to Argentina and served in a church.
And now she's back working with us at 821.
And then we have a 20 year old, she just turned 20 yesterday, Sophia Joyce.
And so she is studying comparative literature in Paris.
And I call her, she's like, mommy, I can't talk to you right now because I'm just watching the sunset over Notre Dame eating a croissant.
I'm like, sweetheart, if you want to watch that same sunset with your fees paid next semester, you'll talk to your mother right now.
That's actually what you will be doing and don't choke on your chocolate croissant.
But anyway, I love both of our kids.
You'll discover I'm both Greek and a woman, so I am into arranged marriages.
I'm 60 this year.
I'm celebrating all year.
The reason I'm telling you is
that I'm receiving presents all year, feel free.
And so I figure, man, if you last till 60, I'm not just having like one day celebration.
I'm having a whole year celebration.
And I said, I need my daughters to get married so I can have grandchildren.
I mean, I didn't have my, you know, first child till I was 35, my second till I was 40.
So I'm like, we got to get with the program.
And because I'm into arranged marriages, I'm just wanting you all to know wherever I speak and my children are not around, I'm just putting it out there.
So I just want you to know
Since my daughter was in utero, I would lay my hands on her and I'd go, Catherine Bobby, you are the head and not the tail.
You are above, only and not beneath.
You are a leader and not a follower.
You are a woman of God.
You're a woman of prayer.
You are a Holy Ghost terrorist.
You love the house of God.
You love to worship God and you are going to grow up.
and marry a very, very, very wealthy Christian man.
I just want you to know that I've been speaking that over her since she was in my womb.
And so if you have, why are you saying this Christine?
So if you have a...
I don't know, a son, a cousin, a brother, an uncle that fits that criteria.
Could you just give their name to Bethany?
She'll vet them for me.
Make sure they're not a weirdo.
And I am getting with the program.
So you can tell my family, you know what?
When I flew into Portland yesterday, I was in Alaska last week, because I'm doing 60 things that I've never done before in my 60th year.
because I just think that life with God gets better and better.
I just don't understand how when people walk with, I've been walking with the Lord by His grace for almost four decades, I kind of figure that the closer you get to the finish line, the more spark you ought to have for the Lord.
You ought to have a spirit, a Caleb that says, you know what?
I am as strong now as I was then.
Give me this mountain that's my inheritance.
And people that look more depressed the longer they walk with Jesus, I mean, I don't know what Jesus they're looking at.
I'm like, you need to,
to like have a spiritual enema or something.
I don't know, but you just like, I don't understand how you can be getting closer to the finish line and people are like, well, you know, I've been in the way for 50 years.
I'm like, get out of the way.
Anyway, so I just, I said to my kids, you know, I'm going to be like super granny for Jesus.
That's what I'm going to be.
I want them to see that as we age and we walk with the Lord that there ought to be a glint in your eye, a little spring in your step.
And you ought to be a little bit naughty, not illegal, not immoral, not heretical, not
ethical just naughty and so I went up to see the northern lights and to snowmobile and to dog sled and just do like a lot of fun stuff up there and so it was like a experience I hadn't had and I'm determined to do 60 of those this year and just kind of in 61 next year why not and if I'm alive so I'm just telling you that because please I will receive presents all year that's all I'm saying when pasta when Tyler called
and said, Chris, will you speak such an honor?
Because I truly do just so honor this house.
And I was, you know, I was unaware.
that it was going to be because he tricked me.
He never told me it's going to be in the middle of a series.
He's like, Chris, you know, would you just come and bless our people?
I'm like, yes.
Then I get another email.
It's like, oh, yeah, we're in a series of the seven deadly sins.
I thought that sounds really intense.
Okay.
And then he's like, and you're going to be weak too.
And you've got anger.
And I thought it was a cosmic joke.
Now I literally, I went,
Honestly, of all seven, only God could dump anger on me because it's like, well, sweetheart, you and me are going to have some business to do because of all of the deadly sins.
The one throughout my almost four decades of following Jesus that has definitely been the one that I've had to wrestle with the most is definitely this one.
And so I have such faith that the Holy Spirit is going to set people free today because if He could set me free, He could set anyone free.
And there is no way
that by the grace of God I would be the wife I am today, the mother that I am today, the minister or the leader that I am today.
There is no way I'd be running a global anti-trafficking organization.
There is no way that I could be leading the women around the globe today if this was not something that God by His love and grace and mercy didn't deal with me on the inside.
For those of you that don't know my story, I was born in Sydney, Australia, the daughter of Greek immigrants, grew up in the poorest zip code in my state and
was the victim of childhood sexual abuse for more than a decade in my life.
So as you could imagine, I was a young woman that was so full of anger, so full of bitterness, so full of shame.
When I was 33, two weeks before my 33rd birthday, just out of the blue, my oldest brother who at the time was 35, called me to tell me that he had gotten a letter from the government saying that he was adopted.
And he had never known that.
I thought it was a mistake.
I said, George, you know, call the government back and tell them they sent this letter to the wrong person.
And then he called me back and he said, Christine, it's true.
They told me the name of my biological mother, my biological father.
When I was born, when I was immunized, I have a whole file in my life.
And he said, I'm going to go and I'm going to confront mom.
Now, I don't know if you know anything about Greeks, but Greeks are incredibly volatile.
We act first and think later.
And so I'm thinking anything could happen.
So I go to my mom's house, I walk into the room at the moment my brother was giving my mother this piece of paper from the government.
And the blood drained from my mom's face.
She started to weep and she said, George, I'm so sorry.
All of the adoption laws in Australia 35 years ago, they were all closed adoptions.
And we never thought you would find out.
And it was just exactly what you're imagining.
It was just one of those moments.
And you know,
I went into the kitchen because I'm a Greek girl, so food is the answer to life, the universe, and everything.
I thought, I'll go to the kitchen and make some baklava or, you know, moussaka or something.
And I start cooking.
My mother walks in after me and she goes, Christina, since we're telling the truth today, yes.
Do you want to know the whole truth?
And with that, I turned around.
I don't even know why I said this.
I went, I've been adopted too.
And with tears streaming down her face, my mom just nodded her head.
And that day church, I found out that I was not who I thought I was.
And to this day, this morning that I'm standing here before you, I don't know if I was the result of a one night stand or an ongoing adulterous affair or even a rape.
I don't know the circumstances surrounding my conception, but this one truth I do know that although I don't know,
The circumstances around my conception, I know that before I was even formed in my mother's womb, God knew me.
And he needed to gather my innermost parts and he fashioned all of my days before his get there was one of them.
And that I'm fearfully and wonderfully made.
And you know that day, every fact that I thought to be true about my life changed.
Every fact.
But the truth actually never changed because of who I am in Christ and who God created me to be.
But you cannot have that kind of background.
without harboring a whole lot of anger, whether it is simmering below the surface, or whether you hide it behind the fact that you're Greek and so you're passionate.
And so you just express yourself because you're direct and you tell it like it is.
Or because you run an anti-global human trafficking organization.
So you, you know, just like justice.
And so you can hide behind all of that.
It is interesting when you get married for those that may be married that things that you could hide when you were single suddenly come to the fore when you're married.
And I didn't marry until I was 30.
And so I had been walking with Jesus by then for about eight years.
And so I had learned.
to really speak the good Christian talk and read the Christian Bible and worship God and lead and teach, but underneath there was so much unresolved, hurt and shame and guilt that expressed itself in anger, not always just me venting out loud at all, but mostly a simmering anger.
And if I didn't learn to address that and deal with that, Nick would be paying for something that abusers did to me 40 years ago that he never did.
My daughters would be paying for things that were done to me that they never, ever did.
I cannot express how important it is that God has brought us to this place today.
to get under the surface so that we can get free because when we look at the world today, you don't have to be a prophet or a rocket scientist to see our world is spiraling out of control.
And anger is at the root of so much of it.
You know, the fact is that
I don't know if you're, I'm as old as the dinosaurs.
I roamed the earth with the dinosaurs.
So you may remember in November, 1977, if you were alive then, there was a series that came on TV.
We got TV down in Australia, as well, in case you were wondering.
And it was called the Incredible Hulk.
And if you are old enough to remember that, you will remember.
Dr. Bruce Banner said, what?
Don't make me angry.
You wouldn't like me.
when I'm angry.
And a lot of us, I think we've been channeling out in a Hulk.
I look at the world and I think, oh, the Hulk has come out everywhere.
Everywhere you look and everywhere you see, there is this sense of anger.
And a lot of us, we are tiptoeing around things in our home and our families, they know we better not make you angry because we don't like you when you're angry.
And some of us, we could be walking with the Lord for decades or weeks or months.
and push this so far down and never deal with it.
And yet we stay in chains and it affects and impacts our relationships and ultimately us fulfilling our God given purpose.
You know, if you look everywhere, well, there's no doubt we all know.
I live in LA.
the 405 freeway, it is like the road rage is out of control.
I am blessed so often down that road as people give me a one finger salute very, very frequently as we go.
People are absolutely crazy.
Family dinner tables have become like war zones.
I'm just thinking over a Christmas and certain extended family members and I'm thinking it has gotten out of control what people are saying to each other or not saying to each other.
Listen,
You know it's bad when the church parking lot becomes hazardous.
I have heard many four letter words in a church parking lot and none of them were love.
And I'm just like, wow, we have just finished praising and worshiping the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords.
And we lose our ever loving minds over a church parking lot.
It is amazing how much anger just simmers, simmers.
And then of course the algorithm, it just amplifies it.
Because our algorithms, they're design men.
Keep people on.
The angrier they are, the better.
We want the clickbait.
We want the rage that sells.
And you and I are being formed by this all the time.
I don't know about you.
I can go online and literally I feel a visceral shift in my whole disposition as I'm going through and I'm reading comments or I'm scrolling through the things people say.
Like I have banned myself from going on.
so that I don't react because it just fuels me and the anger fuels me.
And this is what psychologists have said.
They said there's this phenomena and it's called the bitterness anger loop.
And I looked at it says, this is a self-reinforcing cycle that transforms temporary hurt into permanent hostility.
Welcome to 2026.
And the fact is it's affecting all of our relationships.
It's affecting us psychologically, emotionally,
physiologically and spiritually.
And the fact is it's become a macroeconomic force.
The rage economy, this is how they're making money.
It is their goal to make us get angry so we stay online longer and longer and longer.
And the fact is they've monetized anger in the world that we're growing up in.
The social media
algorithms, they literally, literally promote content that triggers outrage because angry people click more, share more and stay online more.
The data is there and you and I are being formed in the midst of that.
And we think it is normal.
We are being sucked into this anger bitterness loop hook, line and sinker.
It's kind of like anger.
It's been said is like dynamite.
It blows up the very structures and foundations that are supposed to be holding us together.
It disintegrates them.
And we're watching it happen in real time in our lifetime.
It causes us to act and to say things that we later regret big time.
And it wounds people and it fractures relationships.
And sometimes permanently, what happens is it causes us to go into this denial.
And Naomi's talk was so powerful because our anger masks our fear and our shamelessness.
And I had a PhD in this.
This is why I'm saying this.
It masks our fear, our shame, our bitterness, the hurt that is unresolved on the inside of us.
And it's got a huge impact on our bodies.
I mean, I read study after study that talks about the fact that anger leads to insomnia, anxiety, depression, high blood pressure,
heart attack, stroke or digestion problems.
I bet you're glad you came to church today.
And the fact is whether it's an explosive anger.
And I used to have that and hide behind the fact that I'm just a Greek, passionate woman.
Man, I just want to stand up for justice and I'm just telling it how it is.
And it's just my personality deal with it.
There's the explosive side.
There's the simmering kind, that's more my husband.
When you're number 12 or 13, there's no point exploding that.
I don't even know you're alive down that part of the food.
So he just simmers.
He just simmers.
So all that to say, we come to who is known as the angry prophet Jonah today.
And the interesting thing is as we kicked off 2026,
It is so crazy in our world.
This was all prepared.
I sent all of this to Tyler at the end of last year.
And it was like, I really feel that we need to look at this text when we're dealing with this.
And, you know, as Bethany read it, it says Jonah was greatly displeased and became furious.
I'm reading from the CSB became angry.
It just starts right there in chapter four.
He prayed to the Lord, please Lord, isn't this what I thought while I was in still in my own country?
That's why I fled toward Tarshish in the first place.
I knew that you are a gracious and compassionate God, slow to anger, abounding in faithful love, and one who relents from sending disaster.
And I mean, you think he was such a drama queen.
Listen, and now Lord, take my life from me.
It's better for me to die than live.
I'm like, wow.
Then the Lord asked, Jonah, is it right for you to be angry?
Let me just give some context.
Okay.
So in Jonah chapter one, this is just four chapters.
This is it.
This is how long Jonah is in the Bible right there.
That's it.
It's not that long.
One, two, three, four.
So I'm going to give you a 15 second overview in Jonah chapter one.
This angry prophet Jonah, you know, God commands Jonah to go and preach in Nineveh and what happens to him?
He says, Nineveh is the capital of the Assyrian empire.
Instead, Jonah goes, I'm not going to them.
And he gets on a boat and he goes as far away in the opposite direction as you can from Nineveh so he goes to Tashish.
And then a violent storm erupts and they draw lots and it works out that Jonah is the reason why the storm's erupting and they're all about to die.
And he says, you know what?
It's better that you throw me overboard because if you do that, you're all going to live and
What happens?
He jumps in overboard.
This great big fish swallows Jonah.
End of chapter one.
It's really exciting.
Chapter two, Jonah's praying to God from the middle of a fish and God, he says, okay, God, I'm going to do what you want me to do.
And so then God says to the fish, spew him up on dry land.
There it is.
And then we get to chapter three.
Jonah goes to Nineveh fulfills what God told him to do.
He preaches and on the very first day,
The Ninevites repent.
I mean, the King gets involved and he says to everyone, we are going to, you know, we're going to be fasting and there's going to be sackcloth and even the animals are going to do this.
I mean, the King is all in on this mercy of God and it is massive.
It is awesome.
God is loving and compassionate and merciful to the Ninevites.
And this is where we get to Jonah chapter four because of all of that.
Jonah in the old King James English is Tictus office.
He's like, are you kidding me God?
These people are our enemies.
I don't even like them.
And I knew that you would forgive them.
And I wanted you to have vengeance on them.
And I wanted you to vindicate me, but no God.
because you're slow to anger and you're so faithful and compassionate.
You forgave them and now I am so angry.
And I would wonder how many of us in this place really have a simmering anger towards God because we feel like collateral damage in God's big cosmic plan.
And we're like, I can't believe you're going to let them get away with that.
And certainly that would have been at the root of so much of my anger.
is I can't believe you allowed that abuse to happen to me.
I can't believe that you allowed me to be left in a hospital unnamed and unwanted.
My first certificate doesn't even have a name on it.
It says child's name unnamed, number 2508 of 1966.
God, I can't believe that I went to school in Australia and I couldn't speak English and all the Australian kids would mock me because, you know, back then this is now I'm 60.
55 years ago, it was not cool to eat feta cheese and garlic sandwiches in Sydney, Australia.
It's cool now.
They pay a lot of money for it.
But back then, this is pre that being great.
And so I would be ridiculed and I'd throw my lunch out on the way to school so that the kids are ridiculed because I couldn't speak English clearly.
So there was this, I'll show you.
Is it any wonder I went to university and got an English degree?
And so it's so interesting how much of that shapes us and frames us.
And the fact is He is ticked off because God has mercy on the Ninevites.
And really the fact is that His anger blinded Him to His disordered priorities.
And I think on the world today, in the world that's exactly where we are.
We have such disordered priorities because our anger is simmering and we are justifying things in ourselves that God does not justify and we can't even see it.
The fact is that in chapter two, Jonah accepted God's mercy for himself, but he didn't want the Ninevites to have it.
And how many of us want God's grace and mercy?
I mean, we were dancing.
That was an awesome dance that we were doing about the blood and we are free and we are cleansed, but we don't want that appropriated to insert the blank who it might be in your life because we don't think they deserve it.
Not after what they've done either to us,
or to the world around us.
But where I want to park today more than anything because God goes through.
And he says, really Jonah?
And then he has the tree and, you know, the tree dies and Jonah is so angry that the plant has died.
And God's like, he just reveals, really Jonah, you're angry about a plant that you didn't even create, but you're not angry at the fact that a hundred and something thousand people
are about to die and away from me, and we just have our disorder priorities.
God, I'm angry about this, but not this.
And you shouldn't do this, God, because I think you should be doing this.
And our world is full of it.
That we all have our self-selective.
This is what is worthy to be angry about, but this isn't.
And what happened back there is, but what I'm doing now isn't.
And God, I'll take your mercy here, but I don't want you to extend it there.
And what it's doing is it's keeping us in chains.
And it's keeping us broken.
And because we have an outraged culture, we've allowed the spirit of the world to enter the spirit of the church.
And somehow we have justified something that Scripture never justifies.
And the reason it's not justified is because it keeps us in bondage.
It keeps us from fulfilling the purpose that God has for our lives.
But where I want to park is verse four where the Lord said to Jonah,
Is it right for you to be angry?
And that's really my question today, and that's what I've come and laboured over this, because the fact is, he says, is it right for you to be angry?
It's a great question for us to go home and over the week talk about in our Bridgetown community groups.
Is it right for me to be angry about the thing that I'm angry about?
And this is
an invitation to Jonah.
It's not a condemnation of Jonah.
God's inviting him.
Hey, I want you to think about this.
I want you to pause.
I want you to ponder because we've got a world that is out of control and nobody's thinking about
Is it right for me to be angry?
When I was thinking about which text to do, I was going to go to the New Testament in the book of Acts because there were so many times that Paul was in different places.
We were just filming in Ephesus about Paul's missionary journey to Ephesus.
And it says, the whole mob was there and most of them did not know what they were there for.
I thought, this is 2026.
This is like 2026.
You go all the way through.
It's like, everyone's like, I don't know what I'm screaming about, but it sounds great.
And I've just got caught up in what is happening with the mob crowd.
So in Ephesians chapter four, verse 26 and 27, I want you to see this, Paul writes, be angry and do not sin.
Don't let the sun go down on your anger and don't give the devil an opportunity.
So by saying, be angry before we get to, but do not sin.
Paul's saying anger is an emotion that's been given to us by God.
It's not that, you know, some of you might have grown up like I did in an environment.
It's so weird that I was grown up in this environment, given that I was in a Greek volatile household.
But it was like, you know, you're not supposed to express your anger, particularly if you're a woman in my era.
You're supposed to just like bury it and not show it.
And no wonder people are exploding left, right and center.
But here Paul says, be angry.
So there is place, there is a place for anger in the Christian life.
It's part of the human experience.
It's not in and of itself inherently sinful, but it's a natural response to a threat or a perceived injustice or danger.
Will Williamson, when writing his book, Sitting Like a Christian, he says this, anger is a natural necessary response in the face of injustice.
It's an acknowledgement that this is not the world as it's meant to be, not the world as God intended.
So there are things that occur in the world and in church that should actually make us angry.
There really are.
Things like oppression or injustice, suffering, violence, abuse, trafficking, hunger, racial injustice, cruelty, greed, arrogance, hypocrisy.
That should make us angry.
Now it's 20 years ago.
I was standing at the airport in Thessaloniki, Greece, when I first saw the posters of missing women and children and then went on to find out that these were the alleged victims of human trafficking.
I was mortified.
I did not know human trafficking still existed in the, I thought we've had the Emancipation Proclamation Act, we've had the Freedom from Slavery Act.
The first anger I really experienced in that moment was at myself that I did not know that this still existed.
Then I became angry that men, women and children
were being trafficked and sold for sex or forced labour or begging.
That anger
is a righteous anger because it led me to do something about it.
20 years later, we have the A21 campaign in 10 nations and every continent around the world and have seen thousands, literally multiplied thousands of men, women and children that have come through our programs and seen survivors restored and reached hundreds of millions through our prevention and awareness programs.
That anger 20 years ago led to action.
and started to bring change and transformation.
So some anger is right in our world.
There is no doubt about it.
But that's the anger that causes you then to do something righteous about what is unrighteous, to bring justice where there is injustice.
But so much of our anger is not that kind of anger that we're seeing in the world today at all, all that we're dealing with in our own hearts.
God himself,
expressed righteous anger.
In Psalm 145 he shows us what it is.
The Lord is gracious and compassionate, slow to anger and great in faithful love.
And that's so interesting.
Some of us are like, hang on a minute, what do you mean slow to anger?
Why?
I don't want a God that gets angry.
I don't want that kind of God.
My God just is loving and compassionate and he just never gets angry.
He's just chill.
But I love what Tim Keller said.
He said, if you have a God who never gets angry,
You can't have a God of love, because if you never ever get angry about anything, you don't love anything.
If you love and you see the thing that you love threatened, you're angry.
And if you're indifferent, you're not in love.
But God's anger is a righteous anger.
It's informed by righteousness and justice.
He's slow to anger, but when he gets angry, it's for the right reason.
It's an anger that's informed by truth.
It's anchored in His goodness.
It's reaching for faith.
It's coupled with grief.
It's tempered by humility, and it always leads to love.
That's the God kind of righteous anger.
Jesus Himself demonstrated righteous anger with the Pharisees that didn't want Him to heal on the Sabbath.
The Scripture says in Mark 3.5, and after looking around at them with anger,
He was grieved at the hardness of their hearts and told the man, stretch out your hand.
So stretch it out and his hand was restored.
In Mark 10, 14, Jesus was angry with his disciples that were trying to stop the children coming to him.
It says, when Jesus saw it, he was indignant and said to them, let the little children come to me.
Don't stop them because the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.
And then of course, in Mark 11, 15 to 16,
Last 10 years, it seems like Christians everywhere have rediscovered Mark 11, 15 to 16 where it says, then they came to Jerusalem and he went into the temple and began to throw out those buying and selling.
He overturned the tables of the money changers and the chairs of those selling doves and would not permit anyone to carry goods through the temple.
So, Christine, I have never met as many table turning, table flipping Christians as I have in the last 10 years.
I've been following Jesus for almost four decades.
And it seems like everyone is justifying their anger now that, man, I'm just here to flip tables.
I have the ministry of flipping tables, the flipping tables ministry.
I'm like, wow.
Because the pattern in scripture suggests that Jesus's anger was neither frequent nor impulsive, but rather it was a righteous response to specific violations of the character of God.
So what is it that I'm saying?
If you really think your ministry as a Christian is just to flip tables everywhere you go, I think you might have it wrong.
And I don't know that we're really showing our world the love and the grace of God.
If all we're doing is flipping tables and especially in the church, we love to flip them over one another.
And so we have called things unjust because we refuse to deal
with the anger that's on the inside of us.
And we're taking it out on our families, our coworkers, our communities, the people in our sphere of influence.
And God's saying, I've got a better way.
I've come to set you free.
I've come to set you free from that thing.
We have such an angry and volatile world, but truly what it is masking is so much pain, so much shame.
so much hurt.
I lead a global anti-trafficking organization.
I'm all about justice, but I wouldn't be in it for 20 years full of the joy of the Lord if I was just angry all the time.
I wouldn't have the favor that I've got with governments around the world.
And people say, Christine, how have you stayed in this for 20 years?
by God's grace, your marriage is flourishing, your girls actually like you, and your staff and your team like you, and you continue to have joy.
You know what the kingdom of God is?
The kingdom of God is not actually flipping tables.
The kingdom of God is righteousness, joy, and peace in the Holy Ghost.
And sometimes we think the kingdom of God is just justice, unlike that's an aspect of who God is.
But are we as passionate about righteousness as we are about justice?
Because some of us think we could just throw out righteousness.
And I'm so angry about all of these unjust issues, but I am not angry about my unrighteous life.
But that's another sin.
So the fact is that Jesus's anger always had the proper motivation.
And I think that's something we've got to ask us.
He didn't react from petty arguments or personal slides.
And there was no selfishness involved.
I certainly couldn't say that of myself.
because Paul not only said in Ephesians, be angry.
He said, and do not sin and do not sin.
So although anger itself, it's not a problem of all the seven deadly sins.
It's the one that's most prone to sinful abuse of all of them because it becomes sinful when anger is motivated by pride, when it's allowed to linger and it's not dealt with when it's unproductive.
when it leads to attacking people instead of problems.
When it just boils over without any restraint, especially if you read the comments online.
When it results in holding grudges.
That's sinful anger.
And what happens is that's what Jonah had.
He had a sinful anger that was basically rooted in selfishness and pride.
He had a wounded ego.
It's like everyone's going to think that I'm a false prophet now.
because God I told them you were going to judge Nineveh and the whole thing would be fried and now they're all living because you had mercy on them and so my ego is wounded and how much of our anger stems from pride and selfishness and hurt and shame rather than righteous justice
and a sense of wanting to bring hope and healing in our world.
And if we don't get this in the church, I don't know what hope the world has got.
I really don't.
Cause then we're tempted to say things that we're going to regret.
How often are things disproportion?
I was just sitting there thinking about things that I heard over the Christmas season in just different tables that I was sitting at.
I mean, people losing their ever loving minds over losing a game of Scrabble.
or monopoly.
I'm like, I cannot believe it.
Flip.
No, it wasn't flipping the table, it was flipping the board.
Because you can't spell it that way.
And I'm like, oh my word.
Maybe there's an issue there.
Just maybe.
Road rage.
But this one would be, I'd still be very prone to this.
I have to count to 10 and think you do not want to end up on someone's real in the front, you know, Christian preacher on the 405 in LA loses her mind.
So God will use whatever he could use.
Getting angry at a bad grade and going off at a professor or a teacher, it could be anything.
Going off at your boss because you think you deserve the promotion and you didn't get it or
How are you with the flight attendants?
We do 300 hotel nights a year.
We travel all around the world to our offices.
The way I see people yell at people?
That actually can't make any difference.
It's not that they're flying the plane.
It's not their fault.
I'm sorry, the wing fell off.
There's nothing we can do.
We need to fix it.
And people are yelling at them as if it's their fault.
But you see this nonstop, there is zero margin and zero tolerance.
And I mean, we could go on and on and on.
How do we treat servers because they got your lunch or to mixed up?
And you just see people have got zero top and they're just flying off.
And we're supposed to be followers of Jesus.
But the thing is you can hide it.
But if you allow God to deal with it, you won't even have that reaction over time.
Over time, you won't even want to react in that way.
But we've got to allow the Holy Spirit to come in and bring healing.
Because the fact is anger is a symptom, it's not the real problem.
And if you find yourself losing it all the time, it's like a warning light in your car.
And the Lord's like, hey, you're losing your mind over this and this and you're venting over this or you're simmering in this place here.
But it's like a warning light.
And I think this whole series is that.
And the Lord's like, I'm inviting you, I'm asking you, just like I did Jonah.
Is it right for you to be angry?
because we can deal with this and you can be set free and you can actually walk into 2026 and not lose your ever-loving mind.
Listen, just because everyone around you is losing their ever-loving mind doesn't mean you have to.
You can walk in freedom and this thing does not have to rule you.
And the fact is, so many triggers set off our anger and we said that hurt when we feel rejected or betrayed or underappreciated or unloved.
Often we'll respond with anger when we're frustrated.
We run into our unmet expectations and a loss of control.
If we feel like we're out of control, we're gonna vent and we're gonna get angry with our kids, with our coworkers, with our friends.
Or fear.
And that is rampant in the earth today.
And when we're scared and we feel threatened, nine times out of 10, if we don't get this thing under control, we will respond in anger.
But here's the good news.
And this is really what I've come for today.
because anger can become your servant, not your master.
We can control our anger.
How we respond is a chosen, you go, Chris, I can't control it.
That is not true.
Have you ever like been having a full, not you, but the person sitting next to you, have you ever been having a full on fight?
And all of a sudden, you know, somebody calls you and you go pick up that fan.
Hi.
I mean, you have just said several four letter words, none of them are love.
Or you could be going on and you're so angry and your boss walks in, hi, how can I help you?
We can all bung it on like that.
So what I'm saying that to you to say, we can control our anger.
We actually can.
And so I wonder whether we'd invite the Holy Spirit in to say, you know what, could you deal with the root of this and uproot it?
So that over time, I'm certainly better at 60 than I was at 20.
But it has been a 40-year commitment to saying, God, when I got married, I don't want Nick to pay for something that an abuser did to me.
He never did that to me.
So God, could you help me?
I don't want, because of some of the neglect and abandonment issues from my own mother, Lord, I don't want this to be passed down to my daughters.
Because a whole church system that I was a part of for 35 years blew up
I felt that residue anger.
God, did I give my life to something for over three decades?
Was it a waste?
And God, how could you let me do that when you knew this was going to happen?
And I could go on and on.
It was like, God, you have got to come in deep because you've called me to serve your church.
And I can't walk into places with a sense of cynicism.
Or so much cynicism has crept into the church because we've seen so many people blow it, so many leaders fall, so many institutions that you've looked behind the curtain and thought, man, this is not how it should be.
And that anger comes in.
And it causes us to disconnect rather than connect and have the intimacy that we need to have.
It's just nowadays, I know the freedom that comes on the other side of it, so I don't deny it.
And I'm like, God, you're going to have to help me.
And we're going to have to work with this.
And some of the biggest things I've had to work through have only happened in the last two or three years.
And I've been working with the Lord for years in church life, in personal friendships, a friend of like 15 years, suddenly out of nowhere, just ghosts me and somehow I'm like, everything in me was wanted to do a Jonah.
I don't want, I want vengeance, God.
And yet the Lord says there's only, not many things that the Lord says belong to Him.
Vengeance belongs to me, says the Lord.
And so much of my anger is God forgave them and I wanted God to obliterate them.
You're more Christian than me.
But some of us, that anger happens.
It's like, I can't believe that.
And so we could go on and on and on, but it is destructive and it will ultimately hurt us.
And the fact is that James says this, he goes, my dear brothers and sisters, understand this, you wish you could put this in time square and just let it
play on repeat on the big boards.
Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak and slow to anger.
For human anger does not accomplish God's righteousness, that's the deal.
And if you and I want to accomplish God's righteousness on the earth, then we've got to be quick to listen.
In a world that is slow to listen.
We've got to be slow to speak.
And when you're me and you have a mouth, you're very quick to speak.
and slow to anger.
We've reversed all of this.
James says, this is how you accomplish God's righteousness on the earth.
And if we look at so many areas in our lives, we're doing the exact opposite.
And we're wondering why we're in the mess that we're in.
So the fact is that, I think this is what Frederick Bigner said this, of the seven deadly sins, anger is possibly the most fun to lick your wounds
to smack your lips over grievances long past, to roll over your tongue the prospect of bitter confrontation still to come, to savor the last toothsome morsel of both the pain you are given and the pain you are giving back.
In many ways, it's a feast fit for a king.
The chief drawback is that what you are wolfing down is yourself.
The skeleton at the feast is you.
So Jonah's anger, it developed progressively.
It didn't just start when we saw it explode in chapter four.
It was simmering from chapter one when he was like, I'm going to Tarshish, I am not going to Nineveh.
But it was simmering, simmering, simmering by the time we see it in chapter four, it explodes.
So my question today is what's been simmering in you?
And you don't have to live with the bondage and the chain of that in 2026.
You can begin a process today of admitting, confessing.
And I'm not saying overnight, I wish I could tell you I came out on one altar call.
Someone prayed for me.
I fell down, got back up, never had an anger issue again.
I wish I could say that, but that's not the case.
But I can say that as I
submitted it to the Lord.
Christine, is it right for you to be angry?
No, God, it's not.
But I am not denying it.
I think of some of the things in the last couple of years that have been huge to do with church, to do with friendships.
I'm like, really?
I'm going to go into my sixth decade and we're still here.
But the Lord's invitation is, you know what?
I can bring you to another layer of freedom, Christine, if you want it.
You could actually have even more effective ministry on the earth if you let me heal this part of you.
I'm about a year into a, particularly in a relationship issue, a friendship issue.
And just over the Christmas season, I saw certain things and I thought, I didn't react.
That didn't even have that impact on me anymore.
Not only that, I actually want to bless the person.
I mean, one year ago I was like two bears come down from the mountain, please God.
And a year later, I'm like, wow, Lord, would you bless them?
And I mean it.
Because Lord, I found freedom and it just, I'm not angry.
So as I hand over to Bethany this morning, I just want to ask just the question that the Lord asked Jonah, it's an invitation, it's not a condemnation.
And I believe today that's the same thing.
Is it right for you to be angry?
Bethany, you want to come up
I just want us to minister in this moment, the Holy Spirit's in the room.
I guess I'm so passionate.
Huff want to cry because I know how set free from this eye of thin.
And I know the freedom for you on the other side of this.
I'll just let you go with it.
Thanks for joining the Bridgetown family as we engage in this teaching series.
To learn more about the life of our church and how you can get involved, visit Bridgetown.church.com.
If you're interested in contributing financially to Bridgetown Church and to our ministry, you can do that at Bridgetown.church slash giving.
Wherever you're joining us from, we hope this resource blesses you and encourages you to be with Jesus, become like Jesus, and do what Jesus did.